We have some basic code in place to extract values about the product which we want to delete,
now to continue, we need a route on the backend to which we can send our javascript request. For that
let's go to the routes folder and there to admin.js.
Obviously we already have a delete route here, a delete product route and we can build up on that route,
there is nothing wrong with that
but now since we'll send the request directly through javascript, we can actually use a different http
verb.
Thus far we always use get and post because the browser natively supports these for the requests sent by
the browser, by form submission and by clicking links,
it only knows get and post. When we send requests through javascript,
so through browser side javascript, we have access to other http verbs too and you'll learn more about the
different http verbs in the rest API section.
One of them is delete and this is a http verb,
so http method which makes a lot of sense for deleting.
Now it's only a semantic thing,
we could use post, you can in general use any http verb to do anything because you define with your server
side logic
what will happen
but it makes sense to try to be clear about your intention and there is a delete verb,
we can now use it
so why wouldn't we use it.
So now this is a delete route to delete product,
now I can also change this a bit and may be name this product- and then the product ID as a dynamic
parameter
because delete requests can have dynamic url parameters.
So now we can extract that information from our url and I'll leave the controller action as it is
but I will now name it delete product like this because we are not sending a post request anymore
so I guess this name makes more sense, isAuth
is a middleware
I will keep in place though.
So now with that, let's go to the admin controller and here, I'll rename that function, that handler here to
delete product because I renamed it in the routes file too and now the product ID first of all is not
extracted from the request body anymore because delete request as it turns out also are not allowed
to have a request body
but instead, we now have that url parameter
product ID,
so I can extract my ID from there.
So I simply change body for params and that's it,
so that gives me my product ID. And then this logic here will still work,
I only need to change the response I'll return.
I will not redirect anymore because I'll not load a new page.
Remember that the request triggering this action will be sent behind the scenes for the existing page,
so I want to keep that existing page and therefore my response will be a response where I send json
data.
Json data is a special format and with expressjs, I can use a json helper method to conveniently
return json data and json is simply a data format that looks like a javascript object,
so with curly braces and then key value pairs,
the only important thing about json is the keys have to be wrapped between double quotation marks.
This is json data
and this is what we can return here
and now we can also set a status here of 200 maybe because for json data, this would be the default too
but there since we don't redirect it and so on, where we get a status code set automatically, it would make
sense to be very clear about the status code we have. And therefore here, I'll also not to use my default
error handler where I would load the 500 page, instead here,
I'll also return a response with status 500
now, that is what I mean about setting that status on your own and there, I'll also return some json
data,
the question is of course which data. You simply pass a javascript object here which will then be transformed
to json automatically for you.
So here you can pass your normal javascript object,
you don't need double quotation marks around your keys there
and here we could have a message where I just say success,
of course not that interesting but we could do that. And here
I could have a message where I say deleting product failed.
So now I have that in place and now we have two important changes,
this is how we extract the params or the product ID
and now we return json responses because we don't want to render a new page,
we just want to return some data.
Obviously we now have to continue in admin.js and make sure that we send the request and then work
with the response data.
Whoops, not this file though,
I mean the one in the public.js folder, here. We worked on the server side and we added a new route
or we changed the route to use the delete http verb and to look like this
and now we need to send the request there from inside our client side admin.js file, so in the public
folder. Here we can use the fetch method which is a method supported by the browser for sending http requests
and it's not just for fetching data
as the name might suggest, it's also for sending data. Here if
you can pass a url,
so we want to send a request to /product
and then this of course needs to be replaced with the Product ID
and this will send that to the same server
if you don't specify a different host with http and then something,
so if you have nothing like that, it will send it to the current host. Here
I will add my prod ID of course and then the second argument is an object where you can configure this fetch
request.
Now here you can set a bunch of things, you could add a request body but not for a delete request as
I just explained in the last lecture
but for a post request which you can also send with that, you would set it
and first of all let's define that this is a delete request.
So I'll set method to delete here, doesn't have to be uppercase but it's a good convention.
Now with method set, what else can we set? Well we can set headers and in the headers, we could encode
our csrf token because we still need to attach this to our request
and right now we are not doing that.
We cannot send it in the request body because delete requests don't have a body
but the good thing is the csurf package which we are using on a server does not just look into request
bodies,
it also looks into the query parameters and therefore we could add it there
and it also looks into the headers.
So there we can add a csrf token header,
it will look for this key,
you'll find all the keys for which it will look in the official doc. So you can add csrf token and then
csrf as a value to attach this to your outgoing request as well.
Now this will send the request and it will return a promise that allows to listen to the response
and here I will console log any error I might be getting and here, I'll be console logging any result
I might be getting,
let's see what we have there.
Now one important note by the way, I'm not sending any json data with my request here because it
is a delete request without a post body.
If it were and that is something we will see in the rest API section, then I would have to parse json
data in my backend because there right now
and that's just an important note,
in app.js, there right now we only have two parsers, one for url encoded data which we
don't have when we send json data and one for multipart data which we also don't have there. We would
have to add a new body parser that is able to handle json data and extract that from incoming requests.
I don't add it here because we don't need it here but we will add it later when we need it.
So with that all in place, with our client side code adjusted,
let's save all of that and let's simply click the delete button after reloading the page and see what we get.
Let's click delete
and I first of all get a 404 error that
this route is not found, product with some ID
and this makes sense because my route, product product ID is in the admin routes folder, of course we
only get there if our request path starts with /admin,
that is what we configure in the app.js file.
So in my client side admin.js file in the public folder, I should of course point at /admin
/product/product ID, so that's a little mistake on my side.
Let's now reload after changing this
and now this is looking good,
I get a response with a status code of 200, with request body which is a readable stream,
I'll show you how to get to that request body in a second
and if I reload the page, the product is indeed gone.
Now that's a step forward
but of course I don't just want to reload the page,
it should be gone immediately,
that would be the main idea of doing this behind the scenes.
So how can we make this work?